{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww12840\viewh13200\viewkind1
\pard\ri0\qc

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Oral English Exam
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\ri0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 Explanation:
\b0  
\fs24 \
The final for this class will be an 
\b oral examination
\b0 . The exam will be divided into three parts.\
\
1) In part one (vocabulary) students will be asked to 
\b give the definition
\b0  of vocabulary words as well as to 
\b use the word in a sentence 
\b0 and
\b  pronounce it correctly
\b0 . Examples will be chosen randomly by the teacher from the list below. Students 
\b should try their best to define the words in their own words
\b0 .\
\
2) In part two (topic questions) students will be asked to answer the questions to the best of their ability. Answers should be between 2-4 minutes. In this section, students will be expected to answer one of the questions from the topic that they have researched. The teacher will choose which question the student will answer on the day of the exam.\
\
3) In part three (follow up questions) the teacher will ask a few questions relating to the answer the student has given in part two. This will judge students listening and response abilities.\
\
Students should prepare for the examination by reviewing the relevant materials, movies, and hand outs provided throughout the semester. Students will be expected to use proper grammar and pronunciation.\
\

\b\fs26 Vocabulary:
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul multicultural
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) of, pertaining to, or representing several different cultures or cultural elements.\
2. 
\b \ul colonialism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the system or policy by which a nation maintains or advocates such control or influence over a dependent country, territory, or people.\
3. 
\b \ul settler societies
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a society or nation where foreign family units move into a region and reproduce, eventually outnumbering the original inhabitants.
\fs24 \

\fs20 4. 
\b \ul indigenous
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) originating in and characteristic of a particular region or country; native.\
5. 
\b \ul folk
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) of or originating among the common people; having unknown origins and reflecting the traditional forms of a society.
\fs24 \

\fs20 6. 
\b \ul record label
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a company that produces and sells records, CDs, and recordings.
\fs24 \

\fs20 7. 
\b \ul rhythm
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) movement or procedure with uniform or patterned recurrence of a beat.
\fs24 \
\pard\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 8. 
\b \ul feminism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, and oppression.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 9. 
\b \ul sexism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) discrimination or devaluation based on a person's sex; especially, such discrimination directed against women.
\fs24 \

\fs20 10. 
\b \ul sexual harassment
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i phrase
\i0 ) sexual behavior that annoys or upsets someone.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 11. 
\b \ul domestic violence
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) acts of violence or abuse against a person living in one's household, especially a member of one's immediate family.\
12. 
\b \ul discrimination
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the act of treating a person or particular group of people differently, especially in a worse way from the way in which you treat other people, because of their skin color, religion, sex, etc.
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 13. 
\b \ul incentive
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) something that incites or tends to incite to action or greater effort, as a reward offered for increased productivity.\
14. 
\b \ul patent
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the exclusive right granted by a government to an inventor to manufacture, use, or sell an invention for a certain number of years.\
15. 
\b \ul trademark
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) any name, symbol, figure, letter, word, or mark adopted and used by a manufacturer or merchant in order to designate his or her goods and to distinguish them from those manufactured or sold by others.\
16. 
\b \ul copyright
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the exclusive right to make copies, \'a0license, and otherwise exploit a literary, musical, or artistic work, whether printed, audio, video, etc.\
17. 
\b \ul public domain
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the status of a literary work or an invention whose copyright or patent has expired or that never had such protection.\
18. 
\b \ul open source
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) 
\i computing
\i0  pertaining to or denoting software whose source code is available free of charge to the public to use, copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute.\
19. 
\b \ul yield
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) to give forth or produce by a natural process or in return for cultivation.\
20. 
\b \ul gene flow
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the alteration of the frequencies of alleles of particular genes in a population, resulting from interbreeding with organisms from another population having different frequencies.\
21. 
\b \ul pesticide
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a chemical preparation for destroying plant, fungal, or animal pests.\
22. 
\b \ul rope-a-dope
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 )  a method of tiring out a boxing opponent by pretending to be trapped on the ropes while the opponent expends energy on punches that are blocked.\
23. 
\b \ul charismatic
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) having a spiritual power or personal quality that gives an individual influence or authority over large numbers of people.\
24. 
\b \ul draft
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) selection for compulsory military service.\

\fs24 \
\pard\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 Topic Questions:\
A) HISTORY & CULTURE
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0
\cf0 1. Why has the Asian population in Australia expanded in the past forty years?\
2. What are your opinions on the \'93White Australia Policy\'94?\
3. What are your views on immigration in general?
\fs20 \

\fs24 4. What do you think of immigrant nations / settler societies?\
5. Is China multicultural?\
6. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.
\fs20 \
---------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 B) POLITICS\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 1. Describe where your political views are on the political compass. Why?\
2. What do you think of the two major parties in the US?\
3. Which American political party would you support? Why?\
4. Why is politics important?\
5. Compare Chinese politics with American politics.\
6. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.
\fs20 \
---------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 C) MUSIC
\b0\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 1. Think of a song that tells a true story. Explain in detail both the real story and the story depicted in the song. What is the songwriter trying to express by telling this story?\
2. How can music serve to educate and inspire?\
3. Should music have a message?\
4. Compare blues, jazz, and gospel music.\
5. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.\
---------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 D) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
\b0\fs24 \
1. What do you think about the free sharing of music?\
2. What do you think about the supreme court case United States vs. Causby?\
3. What do you think of open source software such as Linux?\
4. Do you think intellectual property helps or harms creativity? Give examples of each.\
5. Is there a lot of respect for intellectual property in China? Is this good or bad?\
6. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 ---------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 E) GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS
\b0\fs24 \
1. Do you think GM crops should be labeled? Why?\
2. Should GM crops be subjected to testing, like drugs and medicines are? Why?\
3. Should GMO patents be owned privately or publicly?\
4.. Should private companies be allowed to monopolize GM seeds?\
5.. Do you think its morally acceptable to privatize a kind of life? Why?\
6. What are some potential dangers to the environment that GMOs could cause?\
7. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.\
---------------------------------------------------------------\

\b\fs26 F) WOMEN\'92S ISSUES AND FEMINISM
\b0\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 1. What do you think about women's sports?\
2. Can women be sexist against other women? Explain and give examples.\
3. Do you think it is good or bad for men to get more involved in domestic work?\
4. Can you give some examples of kinds of sexism that you (or someone you know) have experienced personally?\
5. Do you feel there is a lot of respect for women\'92s issues and feminism in China? Why?\
6. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.
\b \

\b0\fs20 ---------------------------------------------------------------\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs26 \cf0 G) SPORTS\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 1. What do you think of Muhammad Ali?\
2. What do you think of his decision to refuse to fight in the Vietnam war?\
3. Why were African Americans not allowed to play professional sports for so long?\
4. What do American women and African Americans have in common? How are they different?\
5. Talk about an athlete who you admire. Why do you admire them?
\b \

\b0 6. Discuss the topic you have researched (ppt presentation) in some depth.}