{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww12840\viewh13200\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\f0\b\fs46 \cf0 Lesson 5-
\fs38  
\b0 Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO)
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Vocabulary:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul Genetic Modification
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) denoting or derived from an organism whose DNA has been altered for the purpose of improvement or correction of defects.\
2. 
\b \ul bacteria
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) one-celled organisms, spherical, spiral, or rod-shaped and appearing singly or in chains, various species of which are involved in fermentation, putrefaction, infectious diseases.\
3. 
\b \ul pesticide
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a chemical preparation for destroying plant, fungal, or animal pests.\
4. 
\b \ul gene flow
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the alteration of the frequencies of alleles of particular genes in a population, resulting from interbreeding with organisms from another population having different frequencies.\
5. 
\b \ul spider silk
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the stringy silk that is spun by a spider, made of interlaced threads of viscous fluid that harden on exposure to air.\
6. 
\b \ul Monsanto
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) an American multinational agricultural biotechnology corporation headquartered in Missouri, USA. It is a leading producer of genetically modified (GM) seed and of the herbicide glyphosate, which it markets under the Roundup brand.\
7. 
\b \ul sustainability
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) 
\i Environmental Science
\i0  - the quality of not being harmful to the environment or depleting natural resources, and thereby supporting long-term ecological balance.\
8. 
\b \ul green revolution
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) an increase in food production, especially in underdeveloped and developing nations, through the introduction of high-yield crop varieties and application of modern agricultural techniques.\
9. 
\b \ul yield
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) to give forth or produce by a natural process or in return for cultivation.\
10. 
\b \ul soy beans
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a bushy plant, Glycine max, of the legume family, grown in the U.S., chiefly for forage and soil improvement.\
11. 
\b \ul cotton
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a soft, white, downy substance consisting of the hairs or fibers attached to the seeds of plants, used in making fabrics, thread, wadding, etc.\
12. 
\b \ul Frankenstein
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a person who creates a monster or a destructive agency that cannot be controlled or that brings about the creator's ruin.\
13. 
\b \ul hormones
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) 
\i Biochemistry
\i0  - any of various internally secreted compounds, as insulin or thyroxine, formed in endocrine glands, that affect the functions of specifically receptive organs or tissues when transported to them by the body fluids.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Spider Goats and Biosteel:
\b0 \
\pard\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 Spider goats are the name for a type of GM goat that has been given a gene from a spider to produce spider silk. The silk is excreted in the goat's milk. It is then treated to form silk-like protein strands. These protein strands are known as Biosteel. Biosteel is a high-strength based fiber material. The spun Biosteel fibers were reported to have tenacities in the range of 2 - 3 grams/denier and elongation range of 25-45%. The "Biosteel biopolymer" had been transformed into nanofibers and nanomeshes using the electrospinning technique. Nexia is the only company which has successfully produced fibers from recombinant spider silk, however, no one has been able to produce the silk in commercial quantities thus far.\
\
Research has since continued with the help of Randy Lewis, a professor at Utah State University. He was also able to successfully breed spider goats in order to create artificial silk. There are now about 30 spider goats at a university run farm. Applications of artificial spider silk would include using it for artificial ligaments and tendons, bullet proof vests (body armor), and improved car airbags.\
\
\pard\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\ri0

\b \cf0 BT Cotton:
\b0 \
\pard\ri0

\i\fs20 \cf0 Bacillus thuringiensis
\i0  (or BT) is a soil-dwelling bacterium, commonly used as a biological pesticide. It has more recently been engineered to form a new variety of GM cotton. BT occurs naturally in the gut of caterpillars of various types of moths and butterflies, as well on leaf surfaces, aquatic environments, animal feces, insect rich environments, flour mills and grain storage facilities. During sporulation, many BT strains produce crystal proteins (proteinaceous inclusions), called \uc0\u948 -endotoxins, that have insecticidal action. BT cotton is engineered with a BT gene that is capable of resisting destruction by pests such as bull worms. BT cotton has been pioneered in Arizona, USA and has boosted crop yields there by as much as 4% per year. It also has the advantage of cutting costs and pollution from conventional pesticides down tremendously.
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Discussion Questions:
\b0 \
1. What do you think of GMOs? \
2. Do you see GM technology as a natural or unnatural process?\
3. How do GM crops differ from other kinds of human-led crop breeding?\
4. What do you think are the advantages of GM?\
5. What do you think are the disadvantages?\
6. Do you think GM crops should be labeled?\
7. Should GM crops be subjected to testing, like drugs and medicines are?\
8. Should GMO patents be owned privately or publicly?\
9. Do you think its morally acceptable to privatize a kind of life?\
10. Should farmers be allowed to keep seeds from GM crops and plant them without paying for the technology?\
11. Should private companies be allowed to monopolize GM seeds?\
12. What are some potential dangers to the environment that GMOs could cause?\
13. What are the environmental benefits?\
14. What do you think of gene flow?\
15. What do you think of Spidergoats?\
16. What do you think of the possibility of genetically engineering humans?\
17. What kind of regulations should GMOs be subjected to?\
18. What do you know about GMOs in China?\
19. Do you think GMOs can help feed impoverished countries?\
\

\b Debate Topic\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 Do you support or oppose Genetically Modified food?\
\
How does GM affect consumers, producers, environment, economy? Who should own GM technology?\
}