{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww12540\viewh13200\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\f0\b\fs46 \cf0 Lesson 6-
\fs38  
\b0 Women\'92s Issues and Feminism
\fs24 \
\pard\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Vocabulary:
\b0 \
\pard\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul feminism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, and oppression.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 2. 
\b \ul sexism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) discrimination or devaluation based on a person's sex; especially, such discrimination directed against women.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 3. 
\b \ul sisterhood
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) an organization of women with a common interest, as for social, charitable, business, or political purposes.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 4. 
\b \ul patriarchy
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a form of social organization in which the father is the supreme authority in the family, clan, or tribe and descent is reckoned in the male line, with the children belonging to the father's clan or tribe.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 5. 
\b \ul mass media
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) any of the means of communication, as television or newspapers, that reach very large numbers of people.\
6. 
\b \ul breadwinner
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a person who earns a livelihood, especially one who also supports dependents.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 7. 
\b \ul abortion
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) any of various surgical methods for terminating a pregnancy, especially during the first six months.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 8. 
\b \ul lesbian
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a female homosexual.\
9. 
\b \ul sexual harassment
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i phrase
\i0 ) sexual behavior that annoys or upsets someone.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 10. 
\b \ul domestic violence
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) acts of violence or abuse against a person living in one's household, especially a member of one's immediate family.\
11. 
\b \ul discrimination
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the act of treating a person or particular group of people differently, especially in a worse way from the way in which you treat other people, because of their skin color, religion, sex, etc.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 12. 
\b \ul domination
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) authority; rule; control, often arbitrary.
\b \ul \

\b0 \ulnone 13. 
\b \ul subordinate
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v
\i0 ) subject to or under the authority of a superior.\
14. 
\b \ul empower
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v
\i0 ) to increase the spiritual, political, social or economic strength of individuals and communities. It often involves the empowered developing confidence in their own capacities.\
15. 
\b \ul  suffrage
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the right to vote in an election, especially for representatives in a parliament or similar organization.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Three Waves of Feminism:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0\fs20 \cf0 In the mid-1800s the term \'91feminism\'92 was used to refer to \'93the qualities of females\'94, and it was not until after the First International Women's Conference in Paris in 1892 that the term, following the French term f\'e9ministe, was used regularly in English for a belief in and advocacy of equal rights for women based on the idea of the equality of the sexes. Although the term \'93feminism\'94 in English is rooted in the mobilization for woman suffrage in Europe and the US during the late 19th and early 20th century, of course efforts to obtain justice for women did not begin or end with this period of activism. So some have found it useful to think of the women's movement in the US as occurring in \'93waves\'94. On the wave model, the struggle to achieve basic political rights during the period from the mid-19th century until the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment in 1920 counts as \'93
\b First Wave
\b0 \'94 feminism. Feminism waned between the two world wars, to be \'93revived\'94 in the late 1960's and early 1970's as \'93
\b Second Wave
\b0 \'94 feminism. In this second wave, feminists pushed beyond the early quest for political rights to fight for greater equality across the board.  Women wanted more involvement in higher education, the workplace, and at home and at the same time wanted to shatter the picture of a stay at home mom who cooked and cleaned and took after the children. More recent transformations of feminism have resulted in a \'93
\b Third Wave
\b0 \'94. Third Wave feminists often critique Second Wave feminism for its lack of attention to the differences among women due to race, ethnicity, class, nationality, religion, and emphasize \'93identity\'94 as a site of gender struggle. A more psychological approach to feminism is adopted, and men and women alike strived to figure out where gender issues stemmed from, and why they continue the way that they do. \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Discussion questions:
\b0\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 based on Penny Marshall, 
\i A League of Their Own
\i0\fs20 \
1. In the movie 
\i A League of Their Own
\i0  what is the importance of sisterhood?\
2. What are some examples of when women in the film defended each other against sexism?\
3. What did playing professional baseball mean to the women in the film? Give examples for each character.\
4. Was baseball a way to make money, a path out of hardship, an opportunity to prove women can excel in a male dominated sport, or something more?\
5. Give examples of how women in the film were expected to be more than just baseball ballplayers.\
6. How did they resist the roles that were expected of them?\
7. Did they find their own ways of being women (sense of femininity) outside of these roles?\
8. In the film, Dottie chooses to give up her career and her passion to pursue her family responsibilities. How do you feel about this decision?\
9. Often women who join the workforce are still expected to take primary responsibility for domestic affairs. Is this fair?\
10. Do you think it is good or bad for men to get more involved in domestic affairs?\
11. Why do you think men generally get paid more than women for the same work? How do you feel about this?\
12. Do you think it is right for an employer to hire a women primarily based on her physical appearance, not her qualifications? Do you think this is a form of sexism?\
13. Do you think it is ok for a women to get divorced from her husband? What would be an acceptable reason to divorce?\
14. A husband cheating on his wife is often tolerated and considered normal. However, if a wife cheats on her husband she is often looked down upon and disgraced. Why do you think this is? Is this fair?\
15. Can you give some examples of kinds of sexism that you have experienced personally?\
16. Do you feel there is a lot of respect for women\'92s issues and feminism in China? Why?\
}