{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww13140\viewh13120\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\f0\b\fs46 \cf0 Lesson 4-
\fs38  
\b0 Intellectual Property Rights
\fs24 \
\pard\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Vocabulary:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul Library of Congress
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) one of the major library collections in the world, located in Washington, D.C., and functioning in some ways as the national library of the U.S. although not officially designated as such: established by Congress in 1800 for service to its members, but now also serving government agencies, other libraries, and the public.\
2. 
\b \ul catalogue
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a list of the contents of a library or a group of libraries, arranged according to any of various systems\
3. 
\b \ul copyright
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the exclusive right to make copies, \'a0license, and otherwise exploit a literary, musical, or artistic work, whether printed, audio, video, etc.\
4. 
\b \ul public domain
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the status of a literary work or an invention whose copyright or patent has expired or that never had such protection.\
5. 
\b \ul orphan works
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a copyrighted work for which the copyright owner cannot be contacted.\
6. 
\b \ul access
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the ability, right, or permission to approach, enter, speak with, or use; admittance.\
7. 
\b \ul digitize
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v used with object
\i0 ) to convert (data) to digital form for use in a computer.\
8. 
\b \ul register
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a book in which records of acts, events, names, etc., are kept.\
9. 
\b \ul innovation
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) the act of innovating; the introduction of new things or methods.\
10. 
\b \ul incentive
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) something that incites or tends to incite to action or greater effort, as a reward offered for increased productivity.\
11. 
\b \ul patent
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the exclusive right granted by a government to an inventor to manufacture, use, or sell an invention for a certain number of years.\
12. 
\b \ul trademark
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) any name, symbol, figure, letter, word, or mark adopted and used by a manufacturer or merchant in order to designate his or her goods and to distinguish them from those manufactured or sold by others.\
13. 
\b \ul decode
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v
\i0 ) to extract meaning from (spoken or written symbols).\
14. 
\b \ul plagiarism
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the unauthorized use or close imitation of the language and thoughts of another author and the representation of them as one's own original work.\
15. 
\b \ul piracy
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the unauthorized reproduction or use of a copyrighted book, recording, television program, patented invention, trademarked product, etc.\
16. 
\b \ul collaborative
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) characterized by working with another or others on a joint project.\
17. 
\b \ul open source
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) 
\i computing
\i0  pertaining to or denoting software whose source code is available free of charge to the public to use, copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 United States vs. Causby
\b0 \
	
\fs20 United States vs. Causby (1946) was an important United States Supreme Court that held that the ancient common law doctrine of 
\i ad coelum
\i0  had no legal effect "in the modern world." In the case, Causby sued the United States for trespassing on his land, complaining specifically about how "low-flying military planes caused the plaintiffs' chickens to 'jump up against the side of the chicken house and the walls and burst themselves open and die' . . . The plaintiffs sued the government, arguing that they were entitled to compensation under the takings clause of the Fifth Amendment."\
	In 1945, North Carolina farmers Thomas Lee and Tinie Causby started losing chickens  because of low-flying military aircraft (the terrified chickens apparently flew into the barn walls and died), the Causbys filed a lawsuit saying that the government was trespassing on their land. The airplanes, of course, never touched the surface of the Causbys\'92 land. But if, as Blackstone, Kent, and Coke had said, their land reached to \'93an indefinite extent, upwards,\'94 then the government was trespassing on their  property, and the Causbys wanted it to stop.  The Supreme Court agreed to hear the Causbys\'92 case. Congress had declared the airways public, but if one\'92s property really extended to the heavens, then Congress\'92s declaration could well have been an unconstitutional \'93taking\'94 of property without compensation. The Court acknowledged that \'93it is ancient doctrine that common law ownership of  the land extended to the periphery of the universe.\'94 But Justice Douglas had no patience for ancient doctrine. In a single paragraph, hundreds of  years of property law were erased. As he wrote for the Court, the doctrine has no place in the modern world. The air is a public highway, as Congress has declared.\
\

\b\fs24 Genetically Modified Organism (GMO)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0\fs20 \cf0 	A genetically modified organism (GMO) or genetically engineered organism (GEO) is an organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. These techniques, generally known as recombinant DNA technology, use DNA molecules from different sources, which are combined into one molecule to create a new set of genes. This DNA is then transferred into an organism, giving it modified or novel genes. Transgenic organisms, a subset of GMOs, are organisms which have inserted DNA that originated in a different species.
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
Discussion questions:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 \
1. Do you often buy pirated DVDs?\
2. What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of DVD piracy in China?\
3. Who benefits from piracy? Who looses out?\
4. As a consumer who would you prefer to give your money to, the artist, the corporation that owns the art, or the small pirate business owner?\
5. What do you think of open source software?\
6. What do you think about the free sharing of music? Is free music similar to sharing a CD with your friend or similar to stealing a CD from the store?\
7. Should music be controlled by corporations, government, or coordinated freely over the internet?\
8. What about movies, computer programs, art, and books?\
9. Is it wrong to make money off of music that you did not create?\
10. Is it wrong to not pay the creator for music they have created?\
11. Is it wrong to borrow and adapt other people\'92s music in a song you have created?\
12. What if you are not making money off of the song?\
13. If music were freely available online how would musicians be able to support themselves?\
14. Can you think of an alternative way we can support artists without buying their art? (For instance: through voluntary donation, government stipend, community support, etc.)\
15. What do you think of open source software such as Linux?\
16. Is creativity an individual or collaborative process?\
17. Are inventions completely the creation of the inventor?\
18. What other factors contribute to new inventions? (For instancye: law, investment, previous ideas and technology, etc)\
19. Do you think intellectual property helps or hinders creativity?\
20. What do you think of intellectual property law in China?\
21. Is there a lot of respect for intellectual property in China? Is this good or bad?\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Debate topic:
\b0\fs20 \
Are ideas and intellectual creations best supported through private ownership or public ownership? Who is protected by different kinds of ownership: the creator, the producer, the manufacturer, or the public?
\b \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\i\b0 \cf0 In this debate we will divide the class into two groups. Each group will be divided again into two \'93sub-groups\'94. The debate will revolve around two different lines of argumentation: (1) effect on consumers and (2) effect on producers. Each \'93sub-group\'94 will prepare a different line of argumentation as well as giving an intro to the issue. There will be two rounds of free debate followed by a single rebuttal. If students prefer, the rebuttal may consist of two speakers (one from each \'93sub-group\'94).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\i0\b\fs24 \cf0 Sample debate:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\i\b0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\i0\fs24 \cf0 1. General public: Does Intellectual property harm or help the general public?
\fs20 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20
\ls1\ilvl0
\i\fs24 \cf0 Harms
\i0\fs20 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 Intellectual property harms the general public of developing nations.
\b0  Intellectual property rights harm the general public of developing nations, whom cannot afford to purchase foreign products, but still require the same functionality or design of foreign products.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\b Intellectual Property raises price and decreases availability of technology.
\b0  Intellectual property rights harm the general public by allowing goods to be sold at higher prices and often making many goods completely unavailable to the public who can simply not afford them. It also prevents people without the proper funding of improving on this technology.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 If the purpose of writing or any art form is to convey an idea to as many people as possible then.
\b0  intellectual property rights impede the point. If a writer is only interested in arousing or educating the masses then s/he should distribute her/his work freely.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sa20
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20
\ls2\ilvl0
\i\fs24 \cf0 Helps\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20
\ls2\ilvl0
\i0\b\fs20 \cf0 Intellectual property helps sustain businesses, employment.
\b0  Intellectual property helps the general public by employing them and providing an incentive for the inventors of technology to continue to invent.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b Intellectual property rights help ration scarce resources.
\b0  Without intellectual property rights many resources would have no rational way of being distributed equally. They would simply be used by anyone who could get there hands on them and thus cause there rapid depletion.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sa20
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\fs24 \cf0 2. Economics: Are the costs of implementing IP rights greater than its benefits?
\fs20 \

\i\fs24 Yes
\i0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\b \cf0 Cost of monitoring IP rights are high.
\b0  Even if IP rights were administered to a piece of work, ensuring that it does not get copied and dealing with plagiarism are very costly affairs. In the world of the internet where any text can very easily be copy-pasted and (purchased and copyrighted) books can be uploaded to and downloaded from free global software. It is near impossible to protect intellectual property rights. Creating and maintaing a police force and legal regime to ensure intellectual property is protected is an extremely high cost for tax payers. And there are added the costs to the writer who has to BUY copy rights, that may or may not (more likely) in the end, ensure protection.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\i\fs24 \cf0 No
\i0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\b \cf0 The penalties of violating IP rights cover the cost of administration.
\b0  Hefty fines and penalties are levied to people who violate intellectual property rights, and so the legal regime needed to protect IPR would no have to come from tax payers but from criminal fines.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\fs24 \cf0 3. Are Intellectual Property Rights of no use to the authors of works?
\fs20 \

\i\fs24 No
\i0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\b \cf0 Confusion created by intellectual property is exploited.
\b0  Richard Stallman argues that "the term [intellectual property] systematically distorts and confuses...and its use was and is promoted by those who gain from this confusion. [It] operates as a catch-all to lump together disparate laws [which] originated separately, evolved differently, cover different activities, have different rules, and raise different public policy issues."\

\b A writer needs and pays for protection.
\b0  Especially when his/her work is his bread and butter. Writers need intellectual property rights to maintain/sustain a dependable livelihood. If one's work is freely distributed, distorted, used and abused. Then one will be defamed and penniless, defeating the entire purpose of being a professional writer in the capitalist context.\

\b If the author merely wants to express views, IP is of no value.
\b0  The benefits to the author are in their Then intellectual property rights are of no real use to the author.\

\b If the author is dead, IP means nothing to them.
\b0  he/she is not profiting from his work and since s/he was accredited in his/her lifetime fame/honor/credit/honor is not lost by free distribution. Shakespeare stands as an example , Albeit some people are still profiting from HIS work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\i\fs24 \cf0 Yes
\i0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa80

\b \cf0 Intellectual property allows people to survive.
\b0  Intellectual property rights allow people to survive from the time the put into their creative works.\

\b Intellectual property rights acknowledges the effort of the author.
\b0  Similar to a deed who states so-and-so as the rightful owner of a plot of land, IP rights act in the same way.\

\b Ownership over IP can be passed on to another person. 
\b0 The creators of works can allow IP rights to be passed on to another person, as in the case of 'ghost writers'. It is, to the discretion of the original creator, who chooses what he wants to do with the IP rights in the first place.}