{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww14040\viewh13160\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\f0\b\fs46 \cf0 Lesson 7-
\fs38  
\b0 Sports
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Vocabulary:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul boxing
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the act, art, or profession of fighting with the fists, especially the modern sport.\
2. 
\b \ul heavy-weight
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) noting or pertaining to a boxer, wrestler, etc., of the heaviest competitive class, especially a professional boxer weighing more than 175 pounds.\
3. 
\b \ul champion
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a person who has defeated all opponents in a competition or series of competitions, so as to hold first place.\
4. 
\b \ul rope-a-dope
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 )  a method of tiring out a boxing opponent by pretending to be trapped on the ropes while the opponent expends energy on punches that are blocked.\
5. 
\b \ul knock out
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) to defeat (an opponent) in a boxing match by striking such a blow that the opponent is unable to rise within the specified time.\
6. 
\b \ul round
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a period of time approximating 3 minutes long in 12 successions during a boxing match. \
7. 
\b \ul Islam
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the religious faith of Muslims, based on the words and religious system founded by the prophet Muhammad and taught by the Koran.\
8. 
\b \ul charismatic
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i adj
\i0 ) having a spiritual power or personal quality that gives an individual influence or authority over large numbers of people.\
9. 
\b \ul draft
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) selection for compulsory military service.\
10. 
\b \ul induction
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 )  the formal enlistment of a civilian into military service.\
11. 
\b \ul spar
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v
\i0 ) to box, especially with light blows.\
12. 
\b \ul jab
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) to punch, especially with a short, quick blow.\
13. 
\b \ul Congo / Zaire
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a republic in central Africa, holding the full name of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Movie clips:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\i\b0 \cf0 When We Were Kings
\i0  - 9:48-12:21; 34:56-37:59; 1:02:55-1:13:59
\b \
\
Muhammad Ali:
\b0 \
\pard\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 Muhammad Ali (born Cassius Marcellus Clay, Jr.; January 17, 1942) is an American former professional boxer, philanthropist and social activist. Considered a cultural icon, Ali has both been idolized and vilified. \
\
Originally known as Cassius Clay, Ali changed his name after joining the Nation of Islam in 1964, subsequently converting to Sunni Islam in 1975, more recently taking particular interest and embracing Sufism. In 1967, three years after Ali had won the World Heavyweight Championship, he was publicly vilified for his refusal to be conscripted into the U.S. military, based on his religious beliefs and opposition to the Vietnam War. His 1966 statement, "Man, I ain't got no quarrel with them Viet Cong", was one of the more telling remarks of that era. Widespread protests against the Vietnam War had not yet begun, but with that one phrase, Ali articulated the reason to oppose the war for a generation of young Americans, and his words served as a touchstone for the racial and antiwar upheavals that would rock the 1960s.\
\
Ali was eventually arrested and found guilty on draft evasion charges; he was stripped of his boxing title, and his boxing license was suspended. He was not imprisoned, but did not fight again for nearly four years while his appeal worked its way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, where it was eventually successful. Ali was involved in several historic boxing matches. Notable among these were three with rival Joe Frazier, which are considered among the greatest in boxing history, and one with George Foreman, where he finally regained his stripped titles seven years later. Ali was well known for his unorthodox fighting style, epitomized by his catchphrase "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee", and employing techniques such as the Ali Shuffle and the rope-a-dope. Ali brought beauty and grace to the most uncompromising of sports and through the wonderful excesses of skill and character, he became the most famous athlete in the world. He was also known for his pre-match hype, where he would "trash talk" opponents, often with rhymes.\
\
\pard\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Rumble in the Jungle:
\b0\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0
\cf0 The Rumble in the Jungle was an historic boxing event that took place on October 30, 1974, in the Mai 20 Stadium in Kinshasa, Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo). It pitted the undefeated world Heavyweight champion George Foreman against former world champion and challenger Muhammad Ali. Ali won by knocking out Foreman in the eighth round.\
\
In 1967, Ali had been suspended from boxing for 3\'bd years for his refusal to obey the draft and enter the Army. In 1970, he first regained a boxing license and promptly fought two comeback fights, against Jerry Quarry and Oscar Bonavena in an attempt to regain the heavyweight championship from Joe Frazier. The two met in 1971 in a bout dubbed the Fight of the Century. Frazier prevailed, which sent Ali into fighting other contenders for years in an attempt at a new title shot.\
\
Foreman had quickly risen from his gold medal victory at the 1968 Olympics to the top ranks of professional heavyweights. Foreman was greatly feared for his punching power, size, and sheer physical dominance. Still, Frazier and his promoters believed that despite Foreman's ever-growing list of knockouts and victories, he would be too slow and unrefined to stand up to Frazier's relentless attacks. This proved to be a grave miscalculation, as Foreman won the championship by knocking Frazier down six times in two rounds before the bout was stopped. He further solidified his hold over the heavyweight division by demolishing Ken Norton, the only man besides Frazier at the time to defeat Ali, also in two rounds. Though Ali avenged his losses to Norton and Frazier in the years since, the younger and stronger Foreman seemed an overwhelming favorite against Ali.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Discussion Questions:
\b0\fs20 \
1. What do you think of Muhammad Ali?\
2. What do you think of his decision to refuse to fight in the Vietnam war?\
4. What do you think of the US governments decision to take away his titles?\
5. Why were African Americans not allowed to play professional sports for so long?\
6. What do you think was the reason that this eventually changed?\
7. How has sports acted as a gateway for African Americans to be accepted into other areas of life?\
8. What do American women and African Americans have in common? How are they different?\
9. Talk about an athlete who you admire. Why do you admire them?}