{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800\vieww13440\viewh13400\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\f0\b\fs46 \cf0 Lesson 3-
\fs38  
\b0 Music
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Vocabulary:
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 1. 
\b \ul folk
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) of or originating among the common people; having unknown origins and reflecting the traditional forms of a society.\
2. 
\b \ul elite
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 )  persons of the highest class.\
3. 
\b \ul celebrity
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a famous or well-known person.\
4. 
\b \ul revival
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) restoration to use, acceptance, or currently.\
5. 
\b \ul chain gang
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a group of prisoners chained together, especially when working outside.\
6. 
\b \ul gospel
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the story of Christ's life and teachings, especially as contained in the first four books of the new testament; a now popularized form of impassioned rhythmic spiritual music performed by African Americans.\
7. 
\b \ul choir
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a company of singers, especially an organized group employed in church service.\
8. 
\b \ul perform
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i v
\i0 ) to perform or play music usually on stage.\
9. 
\b \ul tour
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n/v
\i0 ) a journey from place to place to fulfill engagements, as by a theatrical company, musician, or entertainer.\
10. 
\b \ul audience
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) the group of spectators at a public event.\
11. 
\b \ul improvisation
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) composing or performing without previous preparation\
12. 
\b \ul a cappella
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) without instrumental accompaniment\
13. 
\b \ul instrumental
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) a musical composition played by an instrument or a group of instruments without vocal accompaniment.\
14. 
\b \ul rhythm
\b0 \ulnone  (
\i n
\i0 ) movement or procedure with uniform or patterned recurrence of a beat.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Movie clips:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 Ken Burns, 
\i History of Jazz
\i0 . Vol. 1 - 
\i Gumbo
\i0 : 22:50 (Blues); Vol. 4 - 10:50 (Armstrong)
\b \
\
Folk music:
\b0 \
\pard\ri0

\fs20 \cf0 	Folk music is music that is played or sung by ordinary people (not professional musicians). It is traditional music that people learn by listening to other people playing it and then copying them. We say that the tradition is \'93orally transmitted\'94 or \'93handed down orally\'94, meaning that the music is not written down but taught by speaking (\'93oral\'94 means \'93belonging to the mouth\'94). Every country has its own traditional music. Folk song is part of folk music. ( And, a folksinger is a person who can sing folk songs.) \
	Folk music is music for everybody to play and listen to; it is participatory. In this way it is different from classical music which is mainly developed by professional musicians for a smaller group of people. Folk music is part of a popular culture. In many parts of the world nearly all music is folk music. In the 1960s a new type of music was started by Bob Dylan who mixed traditional folk song with rock and roll. This music is sometimes also called \'93folk\'94.\
\
\pard\ri0

\b\fs24 \cf0 Adele, 
\i Hometown Glory
\i0 :\
\pard\ri0

\i\b0\fs20 \cf0 	
\i0 "Hometown Glory" is the first single from Adele's debut album 19, released on 22 October 2007 in the United Kingdom. In 2008, the song was re-released as her fourth single. Adele wrote the song in 10 minutes after her mother tried to persuade her to leave her home town of West Norwood in London for university.\
\
The song \'93Hometown Glory\'94 is about Adele missing her hometown of London. However, the song can relate to anyone\'92s home. In the first verse, the singer is narrating a moment of reminiscing. \'93I\'92ve been walking in the same way as I did/Missing out the cracks in the pavement/And turning my heel and strutting my feet\'94 It sounds like she is just trying to remember how calm everything back was. The lines \'93Is there anything I can do for you dear?/Is there anyone I could call?\'94 is referring to familiar voice in Adele's life, perhaps her mother or father. The next line refers to Adele's sense of unfamiliarity with where she is going \'93No and thank you, please Madam/I ain\'92t lost, just wandering\'94. The second half of the song discusses political conflict in London and is a call for solidarity among the people. "I like it in the city when two worlds collide/You get the people and the government/Everybody taking different sides". Adele places herself firmly on the side of ordinary people. The line is perhaps also a reference to the "authority" of her mother forcing her to go to school outside of London. Adele sees herself as heroically challenging this authority.
\i\fs28 \
\pard\ri0

\i0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\ri0

\b\fs22 \cf0 Lyrics:
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 I've been walking in the same way as I did\
Missing out the cracks in the pavement\
And turning my heel and strutting my feet\
"Is there anything I can do for you dear? \
Is there anyone I could call?"\
"No and thank you, please Madam. \
I ain't lost, just wandering"\
\
Round my hometown\
Memories are fresh\
Round my hometown\
Ooh the people I've met\
Are the wonders of my world\
Are the wonders of my world\
Are the wonders of this world\
Are the wonders of my world\
\
I like it in the city when the air is so thick and opaque\
I love to see everybody in short skirts, shorts and shades\
I like it in the city when two worlds collide\
You get the people and the government\
Everybody taking different sides\
\
Shows that we ain't gonna stand shit\
Shows that we are united\
Shows that we ain't gonna take it\
Shows that we ain't gonna stand shit\
Shows that we are united\
\
Round my hometown\
Memories are fresh\
Round my hometown\
Ooo the people I've met\
\
Are the wonders of my world\
Are the wonders of my world\
Are the wonders of this world\
Are the wonders of my world\
Of my world, yeah\
Of my world\
Of my world, yeah
\fs22 \
\pard\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri0

\b \cf0 Group exorcise:
\b0 \
1. Think of a song that tells a true story. Explain in detail both the real story and the story depicted in the song. What is the s
\fs24 ongwriter trying to express by telling this story?\
\
2. Talk about a song or musician that has had a deep impact on you. How has music inspired you in your life? How has it changed you?
\fs20 \
\
\
\
}